---
layout: post
title: Monthly22: How was my January of 22 
subtitle: Excerpt from Soulshaping by Jeff Brown
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [books, test]
---

## Monthly22: How was my January of 22 
### Highlights:
- Learning pytorch a bit
- getting the top 15% on sartorius
- Fighting with inner demons and not giving up
- The Idea of creating NB when ever a new comp start is not good. That should not be the goal.

### Goals of the month:
- [x] Getting a bronze medal on TF-GBR.
- [ ] Get LOR
- [ ] Apply for research internship
- [ ] Code some internals
- [ ] Understand theory behind OD,IS models
- [ ] Read paper

talk about all the inspiration came from my writings

### Summary:
this month was one of the toughest month of the year, hitting me hard right of the bat in full swing. 

Starting of the year was a bit disapointing because I was not able to get a medal on the sartorius. I was working hard on that from past two months. I wont call it whole two months, coz i passed some time looking into GBR and making NB for that when sartorius was stil running. At the end[last month, DEC] I was playing alone, coz my teammate switched to some other project. Although It felt like he was serious. 

Entering the JAN, I was trying to chatch up to the tf-gbr as much as possible. It took me about >one week to get started and getting all the ways people are trying to approach the problem. In between I was also doing some model training. But the cometition kicked off for me after that. I was not making as much submissions as I should. 2nd week I had a goal of submitting 50 submissions, [we know thats not possible coz tf-gbr allowed 5sub/day and 5x7=35<50] which I could not full fill [10-13 sub]. 

I was able to do the below things this time,
- creating a cross validation pipeline
- creating models in pytorch
	- model builing
	- training loop
- Learned many tricks [aug tricks,post and pre processing techniques]
- learned using timm
- Learned YOLO ultralytics

In the first two week I created some article[just some words that were representing my state of mind about the competition] https://somu5an.github.io/2021-03-14-kaggle-is-a-sport/ . I wrote to express myself and pour my feeling about kaggle. I did not think it will be that much effective later on.

After exhausting fasterRCNN [few trickss were left], I started doing yolo as it was giving the most effective LB scores [tip: converge to the most effective model as per discussion as soon as possible, then use that and see/search for some other methods to improve]. I tried different configs, many splitting techniques to get some good model and get a boost on the LB by myself. As at this moment we were holding on the LB by only public high scoring LBs. I tried to exhaust yolo as much as possible but it was very dissapointing to see my experiments failing each time. I used to train models all day and take each of the models for prediction at night right before I go to sleep, the day over time was 5:30 AM. I used to go to sleep thinking that it will give some good LB scores, but I was stuck in 0.6 LB, was not able to move. And this happened a lot of times. I was getting disappointed each time. And the competition was starting to look like GPU war, as i was only using kaggle and colab, It was very hard for me to cope up. I also saw few tweets and comments on discussin forums that people are opting out of the comp bcoz of that. It made me disappointed. And suddenly towards the end of JAN many comepetition ended and new comps started to roll. some comps were interesting and I was feeling like joining one of them and also the tfgbr was looking like a GPU war at that time and on top of that my experiments were not giving any good results. There was a chance of teamig up with some good kagglers but that also got rejected.
All these events were making me feel like "I should give up and join a new comp". But the concept of giving up did not feel right to me. And the feeing became stronger when one day I went to get my food in the mess and one of my friends told me that although he was preparing for GATE all this time but he is thinking of some alternative was to get a job [He did not tell me that perticularly, but they way he said that, made me feel that way. I cleared it out right after]. In the reply I told him "brother we dont stop in between, either we go all the way or we dont go at all". This sentance made sure that I dont give up. Also that article I wrote and all the posters and calendar markings gave the push that I needed. And I went all in. And that concluded the end of the JAN.

I saw few people's new year review post on twitter, it was like 4-5 medals all together in a year. where there are alomst ~20-30 comps gets held up in kaggle every year. That made me think I dont need to participate in all of them I can pick and choose. This time I also got inspitred in community competition on kaggle.

DEC was the time when I got the feeling that the way I was approaching ML is not right. There should be a research mentality. but because of my friend I fortunately developed this quality.




